This is a cool app we created to help visualize multivariate quantitative data and to get a better understanding of correlation. First, I go to the website and then make sure I'm under the bivariate plot tab. This app has three cool functionalities. For one, you can look at the scatter plot individual histograms of a default data set which compares weight of a car to its miles per gallon. I do this by clicking use default data set and you see it displays the histograms and the scatter plot of the miles per gallon versus the weight. I can also look at the correlation by clicking correlation in the top right corner and you see it will display that these two variables have a correlation of negative 0.87. The second thing I can do is actually upload my own data set and check out the scatter plot histograms. I do this by first having a CSV file ready to upload. So, CSV file that looks like this, where here I have age and systolic blood pressure. Then, I upload that data set. Here it is. Open it up. Then, I click use uploaded data set. Now, I see the histograms and scatter plot versus systolic blood pressure versus age. Note that this is the same visual that was used in the course video looking at associations with multivariate quantitative data. I can also once again see the correlation between these two variables of 0.58. The last thing we can do is actually create your own data set according to a pre-specified correlation. To do this, I changed the default data set to bivariate normal and I click use default data set. Now, I have a correlation slider. You see the slider right now is set to zero, and so I actually have a scatter plot of two variables with zero correlation. But let's say I wanted to have a scatter plot of two variables with a moderate positive correlation. I slide the slider over 2.6, the correlation I want, and I click use default data set again. Now, you'll see a scatter plot of two variables with a positive moderate linear association. You also see here the correlation is 0.6.