Hello everyone, my name is Mark Kurzeja,
and I'm currently a masters student in the applied statistics
program at the University of Michigan. I originally got into statistics because
I enjoyed predicting stuff with data. And today we're going to be talking about
tables, histograms, and box plots for exploratory data analysis. Let's get started. Today we are going to be talking
about visualizing data in Python and about exploratory data analysis using
tables, histograms, box plots, and other grouping methods
with the Seaborn package. Whenever we're working
with a new data set, one of the most useful things to do
is to begin visualizing the data. We often do this with tables, histograms,
and box plots as a means of trying to get our first impressions of the data and
a general shape of the data itself. We often try to plot things in order
to visualize patterns that we may not see in numbers. And oftentimes, looking at the tables of
data will give us good summary statistics that we can use to ask more
interesting questions. Today we're going to be working
with two packages in particular. The first package is Seaborn which is
a plotting package available in Python. And the second is matplotlib.pyplot. And this is just going to be so that we
can show our plots whenever we're ready. Today we're going to be working with
the tips data set within Seaborn. The tips data set is a default data set
within Seaborn that allows us to analyze the size of the tip according to different
factors such as someone's gender, the day of the week, the total bill size, or any
other factor that we maybe interested in. The tips data set is located and we loaded it into python using
this SNS.load data set command. And we're going to begin looking at tables
and other types of plots to try to get a feel for what may impact the size
of someone's tip at dinner, and also why someone may leave a bigger tip or a smaller tip correlated
with certain factors. One thing that I love to do before I
start doing data analysis in Python, is I like to take a look at what the first
few rows of the data are just so we can kind of get a feel for what type
of data we're going to be analyzing. So in order to do that,
I have ("tips") data. I'm going to load in this data. Then in order to view the first
few rows we do tipsdata.head. I'll run this code. And here we can see these are the first
few rows of the tips data set. We start out, we have a total bill. So what this data set is describing is
it's describing the total tip that you would give at the end of, say,
a meal for dinner, lunch, based on what type of sex you have, based
on whether you're a smoker, based on day, the size of the party,
as well as the total bill size. And then this is the tip
amount that the person left. And today we're going to be inspecting
how different attributes such as whether someone's a smoker or whether large
party sizes impact the size of the tip. After we've seen the first few rows of
the data and try to get a general feel for what the variables that
we're going to be using are, the next useful thing that I often
find is to get some summary statistics about the variables in question. So in Python the easiest way to
do this is if we take tips data, and we're going to use
the describe command. All this command does is it takes all
of my quantitative variables, and it's going to print out some summary
statistics about each one of them. So in each case, we can see that
we have 244 observations for the total bill size, the tip size,
and also the size of the party. The total bill had a mean of 19.78, so on average people paid
a total bill of $19.78. The size of the party, this person ate
alone, we have a min party size of 1. This person happened to eat in a group,
so we have a max part in the size of 6. And we can begin looking at the general
summary statistics of the data to try to get a feel for what the data is
actually beginning to tell us, right? Some interesting questions would
be does the size of the party impact the size of the tip. Does the size of the bill impact the size
of the tip in similar characteristics. And we'll also begin looking
at qualitative variables such as the day of the week,
the time that someone eat, and whether someone is a smoker to determine
if this impact tip size as well. Now that we have the summary statistics, a useful thing to do is to
begin creating histograms. Whenever we're creating histograms, we're
going to be using the Seaborn package and we're going to be using
something called distplot. And so we'll say that we wanted to
get a histogram of the total bill. We would do sns, which is calling the
Seaborn package, and we called distplot. The first argument is going to
be what we're trying to plot. So in this case I'm going
to be plotting tips_data. And I'm going to be taking the total bill. The second variable is something called
KDE and we're going to set this to false. And the reason why we do this is because
we don't want it to display density plot and I'll show what that is in a second. The third thing that we're going to
want to do is often we want to set a title. So I'll use set_title. And we provide a descriptive title here. It's often good practice to always
create a title on all of your plots, even if you're exploring, so
that if you see this data in the future, you know to reference it. And this is the histogram of total bills. So I'm going to run this plot, and
it looks like we have an error, so let's see what's going on. So if I'm looking through this,
it seems as if, I have not shown it, so
this is what I have to do. So what this plot.show does is it says
take my original plot and show it. And now I can see that I have
a histogram of the total bill size. You can instantly see a few interesting
things about this distribution. First off,
this is a unimodal distribution. So this is the first thing
that I would grab out of here. And the second thing is that this
distribution is right skewed, so we can see the tails off to the right
potentially with some pretty high bills sitting in the right hand
side of the distribution. So that's pretty useful in order to try
and discern how big the total tip or the total bill is. Next, I may want to get
a histogram of the tip size. And so what I do is I'm going to
take the same code from above. I'm going to use this code, but
instead now of the total_bill, I'm going to put in tip. And I also need to change the title. In here,
we can get a histogram of the total tips. So we can see that they may be a few
outliers on the right hand tail. These people tend to tip a lot. The distribution tends to be unimodal. And this is something that I always
do whenever I begin looking at data, is to try to get a feel for
the distribution. As we talked about before,
what happens if we set this KDE = true? What happens if we didn't include this? So Python, by default in the Seaborn
package always includes a density plot. And because I often find this
to be visually distracting, I'll often just set this
parameter to false. Sometimes it's pretty useful to actually
plot both of them at the same time, both distributions. I often don't recommend this with data
sets that are relatively homogeneous since you won't be able to discern which
data set you're actually looking at. But if we were to take
both of our plots before, I'm going to plot the total tip and
I'm going to plot the total bill And I'm going to show the plot Then we can see that the title is
only taking the second title, so this would be another bug. I'm going to want to delete this
first set_title, an histogram of both Tip size and Total Bill. Run this one more time. And here we can see
that the total tip size is far smaller than the total bill size. And so in this way I can compare
two distributions on the same plot. Histograms give you a general
shape of the distribution but they don't provide good indications
of where the center might be. You typically have to eyeball
these things with histograms. Box plots in contrast often give
a better description of the center and the range of the data but
they don't provide things such as shape. In order to create a box plot in Python,
we're going to use the C-Born package and we're going to use the boxplot
command in C-Born. So we'll do sns.boxplot,
and just as before, the first argument is going to
be what we're trying to plot. So in this case I'm going
to be using tips_data. The total_bill. And then I'm going to
want to set a title again. So this would be box
plot of the total bill. And then as before. I needed to show the plot. Here we can see that the total bill
appears to have a few outliers in the upper right-hand side of the
distribution between 50 and 55 roughly, or between 45 and 55, I'm sorry. We can also see that the median
is approximately 18. If we look back up at our
summary statistics, I can see that the median of the total
bill size is 17.79, and so that aligns with the numbers
that we calculated before. And so often times,
whenever I'm looking at data, I'll go between the described box to
try to see what the actual numbers are. And then I'll take a look at the plot and see how they end up
corresponding with each other. Just as before we're going to
try to get a general feel for the tips aspect of
the data using a box plot. So I am going to change this to tips. I think it's actually called tip. Box plot with a tip. And we can see the same thing. We noticed that there was
a few outliers up near 10 and we can see this in the back spot as well. The median is approximately 3 and
we can notice too that both the box plot of the total bill and the box
plot of the tip look relatively similar, even though the histograms
may look somewhat different. And so this is an indication that
oftentimes using both the box plot in the histogram together are very useful
whenever we're doing data analysis. Unlike with histograms box plots
do plot very well together. And so just as before, I'm going to
plot both of them on the same axis. We can see that I'm often just copying and
pasting code. The reason for this is because typically
whenever we're doing data analysis, we're going to be doing
a lot of the same thing. Sometimes you may want to automate this,
but this is more advanced python than
we're going to teach in this course. So I'm going to create a box plot
of the total bill and the tips. And I'm going to show the plot. We can see right now that they're
plotting both on the same axis. And so
this is something that we don't want. We can get around this with
windowed plots, but in general, this is something that
we don't want to do. I'll end up showing in the next section
how to plot two individual data sets whenever we use that as a group. An interesting thing about this data is
that we also have qualitative variables to go along with the quantitative variables. And so we want to see the relationship
between the qualitative variables and the quantitative variables. How smoking, the time of the day, and other day trends may impact the size
of the tip that someone may give. We can create a box plot faceted by
these groups, plotting by these groups. By running the box plot command, but this time we're going to put a second
parameter inside of the function. So if I do sns.boxplot,
I'm going to specify an x parameter. So x is going to be what
I'm trying to plot. So in this case it's
going to be tips_data. Tip, and my y-parameter is going to
be what I'm going to be grouping by, so I'm going to have tips_data again. And this time I'm going to look at how
being a smoker may impact the size that someone gives as a tip. And I also did not show the plot,
as we need to. And so we can see that, in general,
the two box plots of smokers and non-smokers look relatively similar. We can see that smokers
had the largest maximum. They were responsible for this outlier. We can also see that the IQR's are roughly
similar between the two distributions, so smokers and non-smokers, for the tip size. And we can also see that even the fences
themselves are relatively similar. However, I'm curious if the shape of
the distribution will actually be the same between smokers and
non-smokers for tip size. And so what we can do is
instead of plotting a box plot, we can now plot,
A histogram of the total results. So I'm going to save this
into a variable called g. [NOISE] So what I'm doing here, is I'm going to setup up something called a facet grid. And all this is doing is this is just
going to plot two similar boxes for my smoker and my nonsmoker groups. And then I'm going to need to
do something called a map. This function is a little
bit more advanced. But what it allows us to do is it
allows us to take the histogram feature of plotting, and it allows us to
set it across both the smoker and non smoker groups at the same time so
that they're not on the same axis. The first parameter is the function. And the second parameter is going
to be what I'm trying to plot. So let's run this. We can see now that I have histograms
of both people who smoke and people who don't smoke for tip size. So you have tip size on the x axis, we have the count of the people
who are in each group, and then we have smokers up at the top and
non-smokers down at the bottom. And we can see, once again,
both distributions are right skewed. Both distributions look roughly similar,
and we can also see that once again, smokers account for that outlier
that we saw earlier in the data. We can do the same thing for
other groups such as time of day. And so what I'm going to do is I'm
going to do a box plot yet again. And this once again is going to be for the
tip Then I need to specify a y variable. And my y variable is going to be time. So I'm going to show the plot. We have another error, so
let's see what's going on. So I'm running a box
plot on the tip data set. Y is equal to time, but I notice I did
not specify what the data set was. And so in this case I need
to go to tips data, time. And this is saying grab the time
variable from the tips data set, and show the box plot. And now we can see the base
on the time of the day. It appears as if dinner attributes for larger tips include the outlier
that we saw earlier. So it was probably a smoker during
dinner who gave this really large tip. We can also see that the median of tip size based on meal is
actually pretty different. So we can see that the median tip based
on lunch is roughly around two and a quarter, and we see the median
based on dinner is roughly three. This may be because typically dinners
will have a larger total bill in general. But we can also see that the distribution
looks to be a little bit heavier on the right tail according to dinner. We're going to assess the shape though,
using a histogram as before. So I'm going to use that
generic variable g again, and I'm going to set up a facet grid. And just as before,
I'm going to use the tips data set. And I'm going to be saying that my row, In this case now is just
going to be equal to time. And so what this is saying is,
is this is saying hey, can you please group all
of my plots by time? I'm going to do this
g.map command again and all this is doing is just the same hey for
each group that we created. Can we please just create a histogram? So, I'm going to plot that hist, and
I'm going to do this on the tips. So once again all this is saying is
this is saying hey can we please create a grid setup, and then can we map my histogram function for
each group that I created in this grid. So I'm going to now just run the code. And I can see now some interesting things
come about from plotting these different groups of these histograms. So both distributions appear to be
right skewed, so this is interesting. We can also note that there
was way more observations for dinner than there was for lunch. These bars for dinner are much higher, indicating much more observational counts
as opposed to these lower bars for lunch. So what this tells me is, typically
at this restaurant, people are eating a lot more during dinner and typically
they're leaving bigger tips during dinner. So if I was a waitstaff, I may want to work later shifts
in order to get bigger tips. Lastly, let's see if
different days of the week may be indicative of
different types of trends. Let's say that I'm a wait
stuff at this restaurant and I want to say hey what's the best day for
earning tips? And we'll let the data tell us. So in the same case I'm going
to take the same case before, I'm going to create a box plot. We've seen this quite a bit before where
we're going to be taking the tip as our x variable, but this time, we're going to
be varying once again what we group by. And we're going to be grouping
this time by weather. We need to grab the day of the week
variable, what's this called? So any time that you need to look for
a day of the week variable, this is another reason to look
at the head of the data set. I'm looking for the day variable
right here, so it's called day. I'm going to be plotting based on the day. So let's go all the way
down to the bottom. And I'm going to be looking at the day
group for this particular boxplot. I'm going to show the boxplot. And now we can see that each day of
the week has its own boxplot for the tip size and total. So let's create a tittle for this guy. Box plot of tips by day of the week. Capitalize this. We can gather some interesting things. So it appears that the largest
tips are given out and the outliers are given out on Saturday. It appears that the worse day for
tips is Thursday, because it has the lowest median. It also appears that Sunday maybe the best
day because it has the highest median. We can use different
summary statistics though, to figure out what day
we may want to work. If we wanted the possibility of
maybe having the largest tip, we may want to work on Saturday because it
seems like there are quite a few people that tend to eat out during
Saturday that have larger tips. Similarly, if we want the largest
tip roughly on average, we can end up using Sunday as our
day that we're going to work. And that's because this one has
the highest median of the group. Let's see how the shapes differ
from each different day. So as before, we're going to create
our facet grid one last time. We're going to be using the tips data,
and we're going to be grouping by day. And then we're going to
map as we did before. And we're going to apply
this to the tip variable. We got one last there. And we'll see a lot of times
in exploratory data analysis, sometimes these errors will pop up. Never be scared by them, it just means
we need to do a little bit of debugging. So let's what we did wrong. So we have the tip data set as before. I need to say that
the row is equal to day. So row equals day. And this should work. And it's still giving me an error and
it says, facet grid is now defined. It's because I did not defined facet grid. So what we need to do is, we need to say hey, facet grid is
actually with in the seaborne package. And now,
because facet grid is well-defined, we can now end up taking
a look at the histograms. And we can now see that Thursday
appears to be a pretty popular day for people dining in. The distribution is right skewed and
appears to be somewhat unimodal. Friday is very interesting, there's not
too many people dining in on Friday, and the tips appear to be pretty small. And so in this way I would be very curious
to see what's actually going on here, this may be something that you may want to
investigate if you were to look at this data further. We can see that a lot of
people dine in on Saturday. We notice once again this heavy right
tail, this possibility for outliers. So if we're looking for
these people who are giving really, really big tips on a single table,
we may want to come in on Saturday. And similarly, we can also notice
that this distribution is unimodal. And then lastly, on Sunday we notice that the patterns
are not the same as the other few days. We can notice that this distribution
does not have a really clear shape. It may be partially right skewed, but it's really hard to determine
from this histogram. We just don't really have enough data or may want to change the size of
these bins in the future analysis. And we can see that on average, it appears as if Sunday typically has more
tips than this four to six area range, than some of the other days of
the week relative to other tip sizes. So, this is how we would go about
doing a basic data analysis in Python. We're looking at the tips dataset and so other things that we can end up looking
at pass this or how things like whether there's someone that's a male or
a female, man pack the size of a tip. Is there any relationship between
the total bill size and size of the tip? Which we can expect that
there probably will be. Are there anything such
as the size of the party? Do larger parties tend to tip better? And all these things we can begin to
explore using boxplots and histograms. And this is a great way
to begin looking at data. Thanks for joining me today,
and I'll see you next time.